[Music]
hey how's it going dave2d here
so microsoft launched their surface
laptop the other day and
i think it's a really cool product i'm
personally very interested in it i think
it
looks awesome i think they're going to
sell lots of them but i think there's
some potential problems with this
product and i wanted to go through them
with you
in case you're interested in purchasing
one so the first thing is the design
i really like the design i think a lot
of the interest about this product
comes from the fact that it looks as
good as it does because let's be honest
if this thing was super ugly
it would be a much less exciting product
but it's really good looking
so here we are it's one hand openable
the keyboard and trackpad look really
promising
but the most interesting thing about
this product is the fact that they're
using this alcantara material
on the keyboard deck and if you're
unfamiliar with it it's this fabric type
material it's a synthetic fabric
that microsoft uses on their signature
keyboard
on the surface pro product and it feels
and looks
really inviting to use it's much more
durable than what you would imagine a
cloth type material to be
but that being said it's not metal it's
not plastic so there's going to be some
wear
over time now i've seen alcantara
keyboards that looked really good
after six months and i've also seen some
that looked really worn down after six
months so
i don't know it's going to vary from
person to person but one thing's for
sure
you can't just replace the keyboard the
way that you could on the surface pro
because
if you really wanted to and you had a
gunky surface pro type cover you could
just buy a new one
for a couple hundred bucks this is built
into the laptop
it's kind of like fused onto the
keyboard deck i don't think it'll be as
easy to just
replace that okay let's talk about the
operating system these come with windows
s and if you want to the first year you
can upgrade it for free to windows 10
pro
after that first year or after 2017 it's
going to become a 50
upgrade so the biggest difference
between windows 10 and windows 10 s
is that 10s can't run any kind of
executable program so
any kind of like dot exe file you can't
run it there's not even a command prompt
this is crippling to a lot of users
there's no steam
there's no chrome you're gonna be stuck
with microsoft edge and you're gonna be
running bing for the search engine
it's streamlined and it focuses on the
core of windows
and i think for system administrators
it's a lot easier to get something like
this deployed
and for the user you're getting better
battery life you're getting a faster
experience
like a more optimized experience but
it's a very limited experience so
if you're using just regular
applications that you're used to you're
gonna have to upgrade to windows 10 pro
okay looking at the hardware the base
model comes with four gigs of ram and
that is tight i really feel like they
should have put in eight gigs
and the argument is that for most people
that are interested in this base model
so like the university student that
doesn't have
a lot of heavy computer tasks four gigs
should be enough especially if you're
not using chrome so if you're just web
browsing
editing pdf documents typing up word
documents
just doing very productivity focused
tasks
then yes four gigs should be enough but
the thing is if you ever want to do
something that's a little bit more ram
intensive
you can't upgrade that now i understand
they had to do this to create the price
structure that they wanted
but i'm just not a fan of that base
configuration in terms of usb
ports we're looking at a single usb-a
and no usb-c ports
and the thought process behind that is
that right now their target demographic
of students
is a predominantly usb a market so thumb
drives
external hard drives mice they're just
all type a
and i understand that but this is a
device that's supposed to last multiple
years so you won't be upgrading this
thing or you won't even think about
upgrading this thing for like two
three maybe five years and in that
amount of time
usbc will be everywhere why not give it
to them now so that people have access
to universal charging to universal
display outputs
it's so weird that they're using usb-a
and they even had usb-c ports on
prototypes
we were so close okay next up is pricing
even the base surface laptop isn't meant
for high school or grade school kids
it's meant for
university students and up and when i'm
looking at pricing
that base model feels a little expensive
and i understand there's a premium with
the awesome build quality
the design the amazing screen the
material choices and it's very nice
looking
but in 2017 you're just not getting good
long term value
with four gigs of ram the mid and top
tier models seem to be priced well or at
least
in line with the competitors it's just
the base model that i'm concerned about
but one thing to note if you are a
student
you're able to apply your student
discount to these you're going to get
about 10
off so the base model is at 900 u.s
the display panels are awesome with
basically 100 srgb gamut
and they're all individually calibrated
at the factory for color accuracy
the 3x2 aspect ratio i mean this is
great for tablets because you get a
little bit more usable space
vertically but on a laptop only device i
would prefer to 16x9 screen just for
consistency for other devices more
importantly though
even though the screen supports the
surface pen writing or drawing on a
vertical surface like a laptop screen
is not an enjoyable experience during
the presentation panos had to hold the
screen to annotate on it but i feel like
this product wasn't designed around
using it with a surface pen if you want
to write
or draw frequently i would get a surface
book or a surface pro instead
so i want to talk about some things that
i think microsoft did right just to kind
of close this off
they're running pcie drives for storage
so those are going to be really fast
way faster than the ones on the surface
3. the cpu selection is good
that top end i7 actually has an iris
plus graphics chip i'm really glad they
went with that instead of the more
common 7500u
the battery looks promising they're
claiming 14.5 hours running windows 10s
i'm assuming but the way that i use my
computer it's probably gonna be 10
11 hours which is still really long
overall i think this is a great product
despite having a couple concerns i think
microsoft did a really good job on this
thing
so i will be doing a full review when i
get the unit in
uh if there's stuff that you guys want
me to kind of take a look at in
particular
let me know i'm going to be spending
more time in the comments section of
this video just because i know a lot of
you guys are students and you might have
an opinion i'd love to talk to you guys
about it
let me know questions comments i'm going
to be down there for quite a bit in this
video
hope you guys enjoyed this thumbs if you
liked it subs if you loved it i'll see
you guys next time